this video will give examples of careers
and precious metals using chemistry both
inorganic and organic chemical
engineering metallurgical engineering
and others the hydrometallurgy part 1
video introduced the various leaching
processes as the first step in precious
metals extraction reaching is the
dissolution of metals for the eventual
solution concentration and purification
steps these refining processes can be
used for precious metals extracted from
primary and mining sources as well as
secondary sources of industrial or
recycled scrap materials leaching is
also used to concentrate the precious
metals and materials by dissolving away
the base metals leaving a concentrate
rich in precious metals an example of
this is the concentration of automotive
catalysts and mining concentrates that
contain substantial amounts of nickel
and copper multistage high temperature
and pressure leaching is used to
dissolve and remove these base metals
using sulfuric acid and oxygen the
resulting solid material is filtered out
and contains approximately 40% precious
metal content the other concentration
methods use solvent extraction ion
exchange and activated carbon solid
extraction uses organic solvents which
are mixed with the a crisp bleach
solution chemicals called extract ins
and modifiers are used to make precious
metal compounds soluble in organic
solvents the difference in relative
solubility of compounds in solution will
lead to selective separation of the
precious metals
ion exchange is the process that uses
small polymer beads that are chemically
tailored to selectively collect precious
metals from a solution
the precious metal ions exchanged places
with other ions in the polymer to
accomplish this
the polymer carrier will eventually be
incinerated or chemically stripped
leaving the collected precious metals
concentrate activated carbon is the
third method of solution concentration
and purification precious metal
compounds attach themselves to the
carbon particle surfaces the same way
carbon removes impurities in drinking
water filters the chemistry of the
solution passing through the activated
carbon is most critical to effective
separation after solution concentration
and purification the next step is to
turn the precious metal compounds back
to metallic form metal recovery will
require a number of steps depending on
the precious metals involved and
depending on other base metals that may
be carried along in the process each of
these processes selectively reverses the
chemical processes to recover the
dissolved precious metals either as
compounds alloys or pure metals metal
recovery will be presented in our next
video
the International precious metals
Institute promotes the education and
advancement of precious metals
technology and business IPMI is an
international association of companies
committed to providing technical
resources and educational materials
including a series of videos presenting
examples of precious metal applications
and a variety of interesting and
rewarding career opportunities